Styling article for Chat control. (#672)
telerik/maui-docs: controls/chat/styling.md

> ---

Reviewer: Change the .md file naming to styling.

Reviewer: file name is correct, my mistake ;)

title: Styling
page_title: .NET MAUI Chat Documentation - Styling
description: Learn how to style the Telerik UI for .NET MAUI Chat control.
position: 6
tags: .net maui, telerik .net maui, ui for .net maui, chat, style
slug: chat-styling
---

# .NET MAUI Chat Styling

> Any change in the appearance of the `RadChat` components depends on the referenced styles. The default templates contains a `RadBorder` control (used to achieve the rounded edges), an Image control (used for the avatar image only for the single and first messages) and Label for the text message itself.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Any change in the appearance of the `RadChat` components depends on the referenced styles. The default templates contain a `RadBorder` control (used to achieve the rounded edges), an Image control (used for the avatar of the single and first message), and a Label for the text message itself.
```

> Here are the provided styles that you can use to customize the different parts of the control:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To customize the different parts of the control, you can use the following built-in styles:
```

> - `MessageImageStyle`(`TargetType Image`)&mdash;Defines the style referred to the send button image.

Reviewer: `MessageImageStyle` (target type `Image`)&mdash;Defines the style of the outgoing message image.

same applicable for all properties below. also you have to explain that all styles available for the image can be applied to the MessageImageStyle.

- `OutgoingMessageImageStyle` (`TargetType Image`)&mdash;Defines the style of the outgoing message image.

- `IncomingBorderStyle` (`TargetType RadBorder`)&mdash;Defines the style of the incoming message border.

- `OutgoingBorderStyle` (`TargetType RadBorder`)&mdash;Defines the style of the outgoing message border.

- `DefaultLabelStyle` (`TargetType Label`)&mdash;Defines the default label style.

- `OutgoingLabelStyle` (`TargetType Label`)&mdash;Defines the style of the label of the outgoing message.

## Customize the Chat Entry

> You can customize the `ChatEntry` with implicit style. The example below shows how to customize the chat entry in your Chat control.

Reviewer: Add what is the control used for the ChatEntry

> You can customize the `ChatEntry` with implicit style. The example below shows how to customize the chat entry in your Chat control.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can customize the `ChatEntry` with an implicit style. The example below shows how to customize the chat entry in your Chat control.
```

```XAML

> <Style TargetType="telerik:ChatEntry">

Reviewer: can we use code snippets from sdk app here? if there are replace the xaml with code snippet

    <Setter Property="BorderBrush" Value="{StaticResource ChatInputAreaStrokeColor}" />
    <Setter Property="FocusedBorderBrush" Value="{StaticResource ChatInputAreaStrokeColor}" />
    <Setter Property="BorderThickness" Value="1" />
    <Setter Property="CornerRadius" Value="8" />
</Style>
```

> ## Customize the send button

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Customize the Send Button
```

> You can customize the send button as well. The example below shows how to customize the send button in your Chat control.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The example below shows how to customize the Send button in your Chat control.
```

```XAML
<FontImageSource x:Key="SendIconSource"
                 FontFamily="TelerikFontExamples"
                 Glyph="&#xe82d;"
                 Color="{StaticResource ChatInputAreaStrokeColor}"
                 Size="{OnPlatform Default=24, WinUI=20}" />
```

```XAML
 <telerik:RadChat x:Name="chat"
                  BackgroundColor="{StaticResource ChatBackgroundColor}"
                  InputAreaBackgroundColor="{StaticResource ChatBackgroundColor}"
                  SendMessageButtonImage="{StaticResource SendIconSource}"/>
```

> You cane see th result from the code snippets in the image below:

Reviewer: typos here 
You can see the result

![.NET MAUI Chat Styling](images/chat-styling.png)

> 

Reviewer: Add see also section

> 

Reviewer: remove the lines
